MongoDB The Complete Developers Guide Maximilian Schwarzmueller 

Section 18 MongoDB Stitch 

Beyond the data storage 

A totally new set of features provided by MongoDB 
These features are not directly connected with the database 
These are the brand new features that you will learn in this core 
module of the course. 

Using the stitch you can also build the same modern applications 
for both the web and the mobile platforms. Everything you learnt 
about the database is not touched by this but things you will 
learn in this module can help you build modern web and mobile 
applications. 

What is Stitch ? 

Name of the service offering by Mongo

Using Stitch we will take the application that we built in the last 
module and transform it a little bit using the stitch service. We will 
be able to get rid of the Node REST api which is a great deal because it allows 
to focus entirely on our user interface and core business logic instead of writing 
the core boilerplate code for setting up the REST API in Node.js 


*************** What is Stitch ? 

First of all, 

What is Stitch ? A serverless platform for building applications. 

Collection of services offered by the MongoDB Company that you can use 
for building an app (mobile app or web app or desktop app) so that you 
can focus on your user interface and the core business logic than the logic 
which runs on the server i.e the backend . You don't have to write the backend server 
managing the server and setting it up. You don't have to write the entire RESTapi server on your 
own it is managed entirely by stitch service. 

Cloud Database (Atlas) Integration becomes easily 

Authentication made easy

Stitch gives us access to the MongoDB Atlas database and this 
access is available from our clientside application available 
in our React Application. 

Stitch does not expose the user credentials instead our application 
users can sign up and login through the Stich Service and the 
user will get temporary credentials for find/read access to the
database and we can lock down what a single user can do 

e.g What users are allowed to insert the documents into this 
and this collection or what and what fields does the user can 
insert we can control that here in Stitch. Here we can pass 
the temporary credentials unlike the previous case where 
they had full access with their Mongo Credentials here they 
have partial access. Stitch takes our rules into account 
and makes sure that users do have access to the database 
and control the access using Stitch on what users can do 

React to Events in Stitch (if something gets inserted into 
database or get updated)

Execute code/functions in the Cloud where we don't have 
to write the boilerplate codes like parsing incoming request 
and all,Exposing routes in our apis and all. 

Stitch is something we can say as the MONGO's answer to the 
Firebase Cloud Functions 

Stitch QueryAnywhere 

MongoDB Mobile basically a local mongo database which you 
can install to mobile and sync it to cloud 

Stitch Triggers. 

Stitch Functions 

Stitch Services Integrating Stitch to AWS S3 for file storage 


Serverless                                          MongoDB 

Client(App) Mobile App (SPA)                        backend 


Stitch servers will do most of the heavylifting for us 
rather than building the RESTful apis using Nodejs 

********* MongoDB Atlas *************** 

Go to Stitch Apps on the left hand side 

Create new application 

Give your application a name 

Link to a cluster(optional)

And finally click on Create

Dive into the rules here 
Same as Firebase

If no rules are add here everything is locked down as in Firebase 

It is more or less inspired from Firebase in general 

Enter the database name 
Enter the collection name and the rules for that collection 


Select a template 
No template 

You can add a schema validation here and Stitch will try to throw an error if you try to save something 
that doesn't suffice this criteria 

Permissions 

Default Permission included for every authenticated entity including the anonymous signed in users 
We can allow read access here for reading documents in this collection and reading all the fields. 
You have fine grain control over all the levels.

Configuration in Stitch 

Users Control managed by Stitch 

Logs for what happened in your stitch applications 

Push Notifications for mobile apps 

Refer the Stitch Documentation 
















